Aim: - Installation of Meta Mask and study spending Ether per transaction. 
Objectives: Student will be able to learn 
1. Concept of Meta mask 
2. Installation and study of Meta mask and Ether 
Theory: -
ETAMASK 
The existing browsers on our systems are centralized. In order to create a de-centralized system, we add a 
plug-in called ―Metamask‖ 
We need it because we need ―ether‖ (currency for blockchain) 
Installed Metamask (Gives a virtual Ethereum wallet) 
Created a simple smart contract through MetaMask (Using fake ether i.e currency of blockchain) 
In-depth study of state-of-art on smart contract implementation. 
REMIX IDE 
Platform to create and deploy smart contract, supports solidity.
SOLIDITY 
A Language to create smart contracts, similar to JavaScript. reating a De-centralized platform for testing a 
smart contract 
Pre-requisites for creating a Block chain environment: 
Adding Metamask extension to default browser Creating a wallet through test network Rinkeby. Currency 
needed for block chain transaction – ether 
Rinkeby gives this ether – 18.75 ethers / 3 days Smart contract in solidity language on IDE Remix Once you ‘ve completed the above steps, you ‘ll be able to access your new MetaMask wallet. There are two 
main components you ‘ll need to familiarize yourself with so that you can begin using the software: 
Identifying your public address: This is the address you can freely share with people or platforms like 
exchanges in order to receive cryptocurrency into your wallet. Think of it as your home address that you 
share with people to receive inbound mail. It’s always advisable, however, to check to make sure any 
inbound tokens are compatible with MetaMask first before receiving them, otherwise, they might be lost 
forever. 
How to fund/buy and send: These are the core functions of MetaMask. You can locate your unique MetaMask public address by clicking the ―Account 1″ button (black arrow). 
Finally, in order to begin interacting with any Ethereum platform, you ‘ll first need to fund your MetaMask 
wallet with an amount of ether – the native cryptocurrency of Ethereum. All actions on the blockchain cost a 
fee, whether that’s moving tokens from A to B or creating an NFT collection. This fee, known as a ―gas‖ 
fee, is denominated in ether 
How much you choose to fund your wallet depends on how much you intend to interact with various 
platforms. For moderate use, $100 worth of ether is usually a good starting point to cover any initial fees. 
Conclusion: We have successfully studied the installation of Metamask.
